
                                 Exercise 5

Library System

Note that the importance of separating an entity outside of the Library
System versus an entity that is part of the Library System. 
For example, a person walking into the library and requesting a book is
outside the system. However, when this person uses the computer-based
searching tool, he or she in interacting with the Library System.
We will try to differentiate external and internal entities as much as possible.

Scenario 1
In this scenario, the person is external to the system but is represented by a
LibraryMember object inside the system's database.

   1. A person who is a Library Member wants to check out a book 
      for which she has the author and title.

   2. She searches for the book using the author's name.

   3. The search returns with a list of six books; two match the 
      desired title.

   4. The display also indicates that both books are currently checked out,
      with the books return due dates.

   5. The system asked the user is she wants to be notified when the 
      book is returned.

   6. She responds yes, and the system then asks her to supply either 
      her library cardID or her name. This implies that she must be a 
      LibraryMember to reserve a book.

   7. After looking up her record, the system asks her to verify her address 
      (or perhaps telephone number) for notification.

Scenario 2

   1. A library member returns five books to the library and wants to 
      renew three of them.

   2. The library clerk scans each book. For each book, the system
      retrieves the LibraryBook record.

   3. The system also retrieves the record of the LibraryMember.

   4. If the library book is overdue, the clerk collects the appropriate fine.
      When the fine is collected, the overdue charge is cleared.

   5. If for some reason the clerk does not collect the fine, the overdue charge
      remains with the LibraryMember record.

   6. The library member can only renew a book if there are no outstanding 
      overdue charges associated with that book for that member 
      and if no other library member is waiting to check out the book.

   7. The system processes the renewal request for the three books.
   
         Book1 is not overdue and has no other members waiting to check it out.
         Book1 is renewable.

         Book2 is overdue and the library member can't pay the fee today.
         Book2 is not renewable.

         Book3 is not overdue, but another library member is waiting for it.
         The user can option to keep it until the original due date, but
         Book3 is not renewable.
